Exercise or Diet Effects on Weight Loss

When was the last time you heard someone talking about they need to lose weight and they say something like "I started running."?
Exercise is commonly viewed as a major part of the prescription for losing weight.
We hear the motto "Eat less, move more."
[Insert Image]
There are quite a few studies which compare the effects of weight loss with diets compared to exercise.
Turns out exercise is a spectacularly bad way of losing weight.
There's a study (International Journal of Obesity volume 21, pages 941–947 (1997). A meta-analysis of the past 25 years of weight loss research using diet, exercise or diet plus exercise intervention
WC Miller, DM Koceja & EJ Hamilton) which looked at all of the published studies and found:
"weight lost through diet, exercise and diet plus exercise was 10.7±0.5, 2.9±0.4* and 11.0±0.6 kg, respectively. 
So exercise was spectacularly ineffective for weight loss. 
Even when diet and exercise were combined the exercise portion had a very small additional value.
So the phrase "Abs are 70% diet and 30% exercise" is way off. 
10.7 divided by 11 is 97.3%. 
So, if abs are revealed by losing weight then the more accurate numbers would be "Abs are 97.3% diet and 2.7% exercise."
[Insert Image]

What do we mean by losing weight?
There are plenty of ways of losing weight. 
You could have an appendage removed and you'd quickly lose weight.
You could stay in a bed and have all of your muscles atrophy - you'd lose weight, too.
What we should mean when we talk about losing weight is losing body fat.
We want to look better to ourselves and others. 
We want to be healthier.

What does Exercise Do?
Ideally, exercise increases muscle mass.
We should increase muscle mass because it is metabolically advantageous, especially compared to fat.
Exercise can offset some of the loss in muscle mass that comes as we age.
Increasing muscle mass is often expressed by women in different ways than it is in men.
Men say they want to build visible muscle mass.
Women express the same idea as a desire to "be toned."
Often people want muscle to perform a specific task such as play a sport.

Not All Exercise has the Same Results
Obviously, not all forms of exercise increases all muscle mass at the same time.
For instance, take a look at the physique of a marathon runner. 
Runners are typically lean since it is to their advantage to carry along the least weight possible.
They have enough leg muscles to run for hours but not a lot more.
They often have very little upper body musculature.

The Concept of Body Recomposition
Body Recomposition incorporates two ideas - losing body fat and increasing muscle mass.
The Holy Grail of recomposition is to do both at the same time.
