I hate joe friel. He nearly gave me diabetes with the advice in “the paleo diet for athletes”. He recommends 100-150g carb 3 hours pre workout, another 50-100g immediately pre workout, 50g per hour during, 150g immediately after and another 125g per hour after that if it was long!!! Then you eat low carb the rest of the time 😂 the only way that is good advice is if you are actively racing in the Tour de France. 

I think the four biggest factors that effect your pace on a MAF test are 1) aerobic conditioning (you’ve got that one nailed with the maffetone training), 2) strength (this is the main goal of the sprinting, but what does the rest of your strength training look like? a weakness or an inefficiency somewhere could slow you significantly despite excellent aerobic conditioning), 3) VO2 max (while maffetone training does improve VO2 max, higher intensity training can be more effective for this, perhaps an occasional Tabata workout? Even the original 20 seconds hard, 10 seconds easy times 8 once every couple of weeks could leap frog your pace forward) 4) running form (this ties into strength training, but also has its own place: what type of shoes do you wear? What part of your foot do you land on? Hows your body position? What’s your cadence? Do you collapse in anywhere? Do you have extra motion anywhere?) 

I think the occasional HIIT, tabata, all out mile run, cyclocross race, hard group bike ride, etc might be your missing link. You could add a hard event or workout (you could even go to CrossFit) a couple of times a month. Or you could set aside a block of time like maybe 2 weeks and do intense workouts a couple times a week with recovery in between and then return to maffetone training, I’ve noticed higher intensity blocks really leap frog my pace. The mistake too many athletes make is to make high intensity training the go to mode for exercise. It only takes six weeks to train up your VO2 max then you really don’t make any more improvements, you can make aerobic improvements for years. 2-3 2 week intensity blocks with 2 weeks recovery in between would probably max that VO2max out and bring your MAF up substantially. 

The hours of sub lactate threshold training that friel advocates for probably wouldn’t help your MAF near as much as a few minutes of Tabata and would be allot more stressful on your body.

ou should be able to do allot of maffetone training, especially if you mix it up and do some on the bike. I would try to build volume slowly from where you are, for pro athletes the sky is the limit on maffetone (or even sub maffetone training.) 2.5 hours per day might be a good limit for the rest of us. Maffetone should be at an easy enough pace that it should not make you feel tired of effect your performance the next day, in fact it should be easy enough that you can make improvements from day to day without recovery in between.