Here's a dump of all my recipe ideas -- 30g protein and under 5g fat & 5g carbs each (not counting any carbs in veggies, because Lyle says not to count those and just don’t go crazy on them).

    Buffalo Dip: bake 3 oz chicken breast. Blend it with 1/2 cup fat-free Greek yogurt in a food processor. Add hot sauce and salt to taste. Eat on celery.
    Chicken Soup: (adapted from Home Sweet Jones) bake 5 oz chicken breast. Cut 1/4 onion and lots of cabbage into ribbons and steam until tender, add chicken breast, 2 tsp minced garlic, 1 cup chicken broth, 1 cup of water, 1/2 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp cumin, few turns of fresh ground black pepper. If you like it spicy, add chili powder and cayenne.
    Chicken Salad: (adapted from Slender Kitchen) bake 4 oz chicken breast. Chop and mix with 2 tablespoons fat-free Greek yogurt, 3/4 tsp lemon juice, 1/4 tsp smoked paprika, 1/4 tsp garlic powder, 1/4 tsp onion powder, 1/4 tsp black pepper, 1/4 tsp oregano, 1/4 tsp cumin, a few chopped green onions. Serve on lettuce.
    Grilled Tandoori Chicken: http://www.slenderkitchen.com/recipe/grilled-tandoori-chicken -- good with riced cauliflower.
    Slow Cooker Chicken Tinga: http://www.slenderkitchen.com/recipe/sunday-slow-cooker-chicken-tinga -- serve with steamed veggies.
    Egg Roll in a Bowl: (adapted from Paleo Bailey) cook 4 oz lean ground turkey, then drain, rinse, and pat dry to reduce fat to 5g. Scramble 1/2 cup egg whites (whites from 4 eggs). Cut 1/4 onion and lots of cabbage into ribbons and steam until tender. Mix all together with 2 tsp minced garlic, and soy sauce and ginger to taste.
    Cheesy Turkey Helper: cook 4 oz lean ground turkey, then drain, rinse, and pat dry with paper towels (this will reduce fat to 5g). Steam whatever veggies you like (chopped cauliflower is good, also green beans). Mix together and melt 2 slices fat-free cheese on top. Add seasoned salt or salt and onion/garlic powder to taste.
    Turkey Cabbage Casserole: (adapted from The Pretty You Project, and makes 4 servings) cook 1 lb lean ground turkey, then drain, rinse, and pat dry. Add 1/2 chopped onion, 1 15-oz can diced tomatoes, 1 8-oz can tomato sauce, 2 teaspoons salt, lots of black pepper. Line the bottom of a baking dish with parchment paper. Chop 1 head cabbage. Put half the cabbage in the bottom of the dish, then pour meat sauce over, then top with remaining cabbage. Spread 1 cup fat-free cottage cheese on top. Cover with foil and bake at 350 for 45 minutes, then remove foil and bake another 15 minutes.
    Spicy Ground Beef Curry: (adapted from Raghavan Iyer) cook 4 oz lean ground beef, then drain, rinse, and pat dry. Steam whatever veggies you like (green beans and zucchini are good) plus 1/4 onion, 1 tsp minced garlic, 1/2 serrano pepper chopped, or whole pepper if you like really spicy food. (Can also dry sautee onion, garlic, and pepper.) Mix all together and add 1/4 tsp ground coriander, 1/4 tsp ground cumin, 1/4 tsp salt, 1/4 tsp turmeric, 1/4 tsp powdered ginger. Top with chopped cilantro. Serve with 1/2 cup fat-free Greek yogurt (adds protein AND cools down the heat!)
    Cheeseburger Sliders: cook 4 oz lean ground beef, then drain, rinse, and pat dry. Divide into two “patties” with a slice of fat-free cheese on each. Eat wrapped in lettuce, topped with tomato, onion, pickles, and mustard.
    Tacos: cook 4 oz lean ground beef, then drain, rinse, and pat dry. Mix in 1/2 tsp cumin, 1/2 tsp chili powder, 1/2 tsp garlic powder. Divide into lettuce leaf “shells” and top each with half a slice of fat-free cheese and 2 tablespoons fat-free Greek yogurt. Add tomatoes, onions, salsa, jalepenos, cilantro. Can also do chicken tacos by baking and shredding 3 oz chicken breast instead of the beef. Or cook chicken and peppers for lettuce-wrap “fajitas.”
    Asian Lettuce Wraps: (adapted from Dana Carpender) bake 5 oz chicken breast. Chop it in food processor with mushrooms, 1 tsp minced garlic. 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1/2 tsp rice vinegar. Divide up and wrap in romaine leaves. Make a dipping sauce out of 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1 tablespoon rice vinegar, 1 tablespoon tomato sauce, splash of lemon juice, a few chili flakes, artificial sweetener to taste.
    Egg White Cups: (adapted from From Fries to Fit) “Sautee” with a couple tablespoons of water 1/4 cup chopped peppers, 1 bunch spinach chopped, 1/2 cup mushrooms sliced, 1/4 onion chopped, 2 tsp minced garlic (2 cloves), until all soft. Mix in a bowl with 1 cup egg whites (whites from 8 eggs). Pour into 6 silicone muffin tins (or give a tiny spritz of cooking spray to regular muffin tins). Bake at 350 degrees for about 20 minutes.
